docs: refactor installation instructions (#2060)
lingui/js-lingui: website/docs/installation.mdx

---
title: Installation and Setup
description: Learn how to install Lingui in your project
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Installation and Setup

Lingui is more than just a package; it's a comprehensive suite of tools designed to simplify internationalization. You have the flexibility to choose the specific tools that best fit your project's needs.

> Learn how to install Lingui in your project, whether you use JavaScript, React or React Native. Lingui also supports various transpilers and build tools, such as Babel, SWC, and Vite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to install Lingui in your project, whether you use JavaScript, React (including RSC) or React Native. Lingui also supports various transpilers and build tools, such as Babel, SWC, and Vite.
```

## Prerequisites

- Make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) installed (v20 or higher).
- Install [Lingui CLI](/docs/ref/cli.md) to manage your translations and catalogs.

:::tip
Don't miss the [Lingui ESLint Plugin](/docs/ref/eslint-plugin.md) which can help you find and prevent common l10n mistakes in your code.
:::

> ## Choosing Transpiler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Choosing a Transpiler
```

> > A transpiler converts code within a language, transforming newer features into older equivalents for compatibility, or expanding concise syntax into more detailed implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A transpiler converts code within a language, transforming newer features into older equivalents for compatibility, or expanding concise syntax into more verbose implementations.
```

> Lingui needs a transpiler to work. It's responsible for transforming Lingui's JS/JSX components into [ICU Message Format](/docs/guides/message-format.md) and extracting message IDs. Both Babel and SWC transpilers are supported. Depending on your project setup, you can choose the one that suits your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lingui needs a transpiler to work. It's responsible for transforming Lingui's JS/JSX components into [ICU Message Format](/docs/guides/message-format.md) and extracting message IDs. Both Babel and SWC transpilers are supported. Follow the Babel or SWC setup depending on what transpiler your project already uses.
```
